README.md, before:

# Terminal Document

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@universal-packages%2Fterminal-presenter.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@universal-packages/terminal-presenter)
[![Testing](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter/actions/workflows/testing.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter/actions/workflows/testing.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=CXPJSN8IGL)](https://codecov.io/gh/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter)

Terminal document presentation system.

## Install

```shell
npm install @universal-packages/terminal-presenter
```

## TerminalPresenter

Ideally a single terminal presenter should be instantiated and used throughout the application. Once started it hooks into the printing capabilities of the application in order to present real time updates to the terminal.

```typescript
import { TerminalPresenter } from '@universal-packages/terminal-presenter'

const terminalPresenter = new TerminalPresenter()

terminalPresenter.appendDocument('document-1', {
  rows: [
    {
      blocks: [{ text: 'Hello World!!' }]
    }
  ]
})

terminalPresenter.appendDocument('document-2', {
  rows: [
    {
      blocks: [{ text: 'Some more real time info' }]
    }
  ]
})

terminalPresenter.start()
```

### Options

- **`clear`** `boolean`
  Clears the terminal before start presenting documents.

- **`decorateConsole`** `boolean` `default: true`
  Decorates the console.\<methods\> to identify better where the logs are coming from.

- **`framesPerSecond`** `number` `default: 30`
  The amount of frames per second the terminal presenter will try to achieve. There are some optimizations to only render what is necessary so this can in theory be higher than the actual refresh rate of the terminal but after 30 it's not really noticeable.

### Instance Methods

#### `start()`

Starts the terminal presenter. This will start presenting all documents and hook into the console to present logs in real time.

#### `stop()`

Stops the terminal presenter. This will stop presenting all documents and unhook from the console.

#### `appendDocument(id: string, descriptor: Descriptor)`

Sets a document to be presented in real time in the terminal below all coming logs and after all other presented documents. See [Descriptor](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#descriptor) for more information.

#### `prependDocument(id: string, descriptor: Descriptor)`

Sets a document to be presented in real time in the terminal above all coming logs and before all other presented documents.See [Descriptor](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#descriptor) for more information.

#### `updateDocument(id: string, descriptor: Descriptor)`

Updates a document that is already being presented in the terminal. [Descriptor](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#descriptor) for more information.

#### `removeDocument(id: string)`

Removes a document and stops presenting it in the terminal.

## Typescript

This library is developed in TypeScript and shipped fully typed.

## Contributing

The development of this library happens in the open on GitHub, and we are grateful to the community for contributing bugfixes and improvements. Read below to learn how you can take part in improving this library.

- [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

### License

[MIT licensed](./LICENSE).

Commit message:

Update block and be able to stop at any moment not only with documents

README.md, after:

# Terminal Document

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@universal-packages%2Fterminal-presenter.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@universal-packages/terminal-presenter)
[![Testing](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter/actions/workflows/testing.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter/actions/workflows/testing.yml)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter/branch/main/graph/badge.svg?token=CXPJSN8IGL)](https://codecov.io/gh/universal-packages/universal-terminal-presenter)

Terminal document presentation system.

## Install

```shell
npm install @universal-packages/terminal-presenter
```

## TerminalPresenter

Ideally a single terminal presenter should be instantiated and used throughout the application. Once started it hooks into the printing capabilities of the application in order to present real time updates to the terminal.

```typescript
import { TerminalPresenter } from '@universal-packages/terminal-presenter'

const terminalPresenter = new TerminalPresenter()

terminalPresenter.appendDocument('document-1', {
  rows: [
    {
      blocks: [{ text: 'Hello World!!' }]
    }
  ]
})

terminalPresenter.appendDocument('document-2', {
  rows: [
    {
      blocks: [{ text: 'Some more real time info' }]
    }
  ]
})

terminalPresenter.start()
```

### Options

- **`clear`** `boolean`
  Clears the terminal before start presenting documents.

- **`decorateConsole`** `boolean` `default: true`
  Decorates the console.\<methods\> to identify better where the logs are coming from.

- **`framesPerSecond`** `number` `default: 30`
  The amount of frames per second the terminal presenter will try to achieve. There are some optimizations to only render what is necessary so this can in theory be higher than the actual refresh rate of the terminal but after 30 it's not really noticeable.

### Instance Methods

#### `start()`

Starts the terminal presenter. This will start presenting all documents and hook into the console to present logs in real time.

#### `stop()`

Stops the terminal presenter. This will stop presenting all documents and unhook from the console.

#### `appendDocument(id: string, descriptor: Descriptor)`

Sets a document to be presented in real time in the terminal below all coming logs and after all other presented documents. See [Descriptor](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#descriptor) for more information.

#### `prependDocument(id: string, descriptor: Descriptor)`

Sets a document to be presented in real time in the terminal above all coming logs and before all other presented documents.See [Descriptor](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#descriptor) for more information.

#### `updateDocument(id: string, descriptor: Descriptor)`

Updates a document that is already being presented in the terminal. [Descriptor](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#descriptor) for more information.

#### `updateDocumentBlocks(id: string, blockId: string, descriptor: BlockDescriptor)`

Updates a block in a document that is already being presented in the terminal. Check [Block update](https://github.com/universal-packages/universal-terminal-document?tab=readme-ov-file#updateid-string-block-object) for more information.

#### `removeDocument(id: string)`

Removes a document and stops presenting it in the terminal.

## Typescript

This library is developed in TypeScript and shipped fully typed.

## Contributing

The development of this library happens in the open on GitHub, and we are grateful to the community for contributing bugfixes and improvements. Read below to learn how you can take part in improving this library.

- [Code of Conduct](./CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)
- [Contributing Guide](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

### License

[MIT licensed](./LICENSE).
